[Map0]
Apparently it hosts quite the grueling challenge, an “AI Trainer Gauntlet” as they describe it.
Apparently 那里举办着相当艰苦的挑战，正如他们所描述的"AI训练家试炼"。

[Map7]
If anyone could ride that momentum it’d probably be you.
如果有人能乘势而上，那 probably 就是你。
Yeah, definitely! Kinda part of why I’m sore about it.
是啊，当然！这也是我为此感到 sore 的部分原因。
I know you’re destined for even greater glories.
我知道你注定会获得更伟大的荣耀。

[Map8]
I’m being silly to distract myself from fear.
我在装傻来分散自己对恐惧的注意力。
Anyway, let’s get a round of applause for Vanya and \PN!
总之，让我们为瓦尼亚和\PN鼓掌！
We’ve both been collecting badges at lightning speed.
我们俩都以闪电般的速度收集徽章。
Plus, I’m perfecting every gym leader, without even using held items!
而且，我完美击败了每一位道馆馆主，甚至都没使用持有道具！
I’d say “not to brag”, but I am absolutely bragging.
我想说"不是吹牛"，但我绝对是在吹牛。
If you need me, I’ll be around, ready to battle at a moment’s notice!
如果你需要我，我会在附近，随时准备应战！
Oh, by the way, don't worry about pronouns for me—I like 'em all.
哦，顺便说一下，不用担心我的代词——我全都喜欢。
Well, they <i>can</i> get a bit stale after a while, so... mix it up!
嗯，它们<i>确实</i>过一段时间会有点乏味，所以……换着用！

[Map35]
The <imp>MasterDex</imp> is a Pokédex, but it comes preloaded with data on every species.
<<imp>大师图鉴</imp>是一个宝可梦图鉴，但它预装了每个物种的数据。
Though, if you prefer the thrill of discovery, you can have it hide the info until you've seen one.
不过，如果你喜欢发现的刺激感，你可以让它隐藏信息直到你亲眼见过。
I've got a Skwovet, a Zigzagoon, and a Patrat.
我有一只贪心栗鼠、一只蛇纹熊和一只探探鼠。
You may want to look them up in your MasterDex, using the <imp>search feature</imp>.
你可能想在你的大师图鉴中查找它们，使用<<imp>搜索功能</imp>。
In case you've got the data hidden, let me just reveal those for you.
如果你隐藏了数据，让我为你揭示它们。
Each of those species has a signature move, and strong ones at that. It's good reading.
这些物种每一个都有专属招式，而且都很强。值得一读。
Let me know when you've made your choice.
做好选择后告诉我。
OK, now - Skwovet, Zigzagoon, or Patrat?
好了，现在——贪心栗鼠、蛇纹熊还是探探鼠？

[Map38]
I’ll be using <imp>my tournament team</imp>, a full six-member squad.
我会使用<<imp>我的锦标赛队伍</imp>，一个完整的六人小队。
And after you beat me? Well, a trainer’s gotta keep <i>some</i> secrets.
打败我之后呢？好吧，训练家总得保留<i>一些</i>秘密。
Beat me and I’ll tell you about it.
打败我，我就告诉你。
Yeah, it’s...
是啊，这……
Like yeah of course it happened. It’s gotta be someone.
就像，是啊，当然发生了。总会是某个人。
Longterm, no. I wasn’t expecting to win the entire thing.
长远来看，没有。我没指望能赢得整个比赛。
I’ve gone over the fight in my mind several times already.
我已经在脑海中回顾了那场对战好几次。
Thinking about what I did wrong and what I could’ve done better.
思考我做错了什么，以及我本可以做得更好。
But I can’t do it again, so I doubt ruminating is going to make me feel better.
但我无法重来，所以我怀疑反复思考不会让我感觉更好。
Oh, don’t worry about that.
哦，别担心那个。
A memento, or maybe not. It’s yours now.
一个纪念品，也许不是。现在它是你的了。
It’s got mushrooms, moss... combination mushrooms AND moss.
那里有蘑菇、苔藓……蘑菇和苔藓的结合体。
That’s lichen.
那是地衣。
Okay, lichen isn’t mushrooms and moss. It’s fungi and bacteria.
好吧，地衣不是蘑菇和苔藓。它是真菌和细菌。
Either way, I’m <i>lichen</i> this idea already!
不管怎样，我已经<i>地衣</i>这个想法了！
I’m itching to get some more play with this team.
我迫不及待想多用这支队伍打打。
Finally using held items again! It’s refreshing.
终于又用持有道具了！真令人耳目一新。

[Map43]
Room 204\nCurrent Resident: Noah
204号房间\n当前住户：诺亚
1, 2, 3, 4!
1、2、3、4！
Lets go, lets go!
走吧，走吧！
You should keep active, it has a ton of health benefits.
你应该保持活跃，这对健康有很多好处。
Both for you and your Pokemon!
对你和你的宝可梦都有好处！
Room 203\nCurrent Residents: Dana, Sophia
203号房间\n当前住户：达娜、索菲亚
I'm glad this complex has this room, where I can train my Pokemon safely.
我很高兴这个公寓有这个房间，我可以在这里安全地训练我的宝可梦。
Not that much tends to happen between these two...
这两个人之间通常不会发生太多事……
Room 202\nCurrent Resident: Ruby
202号房间\n当前住户：露比
You can work out all you want, but you won't build any muscle if you don't get enough protein.
你可以尽情锻炼，但如果蛋白质摄入不足，你就长不出肌肉。
Here, the perfect drink for exercise...
给你，运动的最佳饮品……
You can tell how many of those I've guzzled down over the years.
你能看出这些年来我喝了多少这种饮料。

[Map62]
I thought bringing Aron to this gym would be a good idea.
我以为带可可多拉来这个道馆是个好主意。
Rock is effective against Fire and Steel is immune to Poison after all.
毕竟岩石克制火，钢免疫毒。
Imagine my horror, because I forgot Steel types aren't immune to the poison status condition.
想象一下我的惊恐，因为我忘了钢属性并不免疫中毒异常状态。
My poor Aron got worn down in an instant!
我可怜的可可多拉瞬间就被削弱了！
Since then, I always carry Pecha Berries with me...
从那以后，我总是随身携带桃桃果……

[Map137]
I'm a safety minded person.
我是个注重安全的人。
Everything's changed now that Avatars are around.
现在化身出现了，一切都变了。
I'm worried they'll be drawn to me by the reflections.
我担心它们会被反射吸引到我这里。
If you're going out and fighting those things, maybe that's somehow an upside for you...?
如果你要出去和那些东西战斗，也许这对你来说某种程度上是个优势……？
I'll need to check Eleig.com for any new safety products that will work on Avatars.
我需要查看埃莱格网，寻找对化身有效的新安全产品。
My incantations keep faltering! I need a companion to assist in my rites.
我的咒语总是出错！我需要一个同伴来协助我的仪式。
I boarded a fishing boat to try and get a Galarian Corsola, but the fates could only bestow upon me the ordinary kind.
我登上渔船试图获得伽勒尔太阳珊瑚，但命运只赐予我普通的那种。
So, I'm trying a different approach.
所以，我在尝试不同的方法。
I'm willing to part with it, so long as you can provide me a fitting replacement.
我愿意放弃它，只要你能给我一个合适的替代品。
I'll trade you my Corsola for any Pokémon from the Esoteric tribe.
我愿意用我的太阳珊瑚交换任何来自神秘部落的宝可梦。
I see great misfortune in your future...
我看到你未来会有巨大的不幸……
Thank you, traveller.
谢谢你，旅行者。
May the stars guide you through your hardships.
愿星辰指引你度过艰难。
Ah, you again.
啊，又是你。
I must thank you for your prior assistance. My rites have gone splendidly since.
我必须感谢你之前的帮助。从那以后我的仪式进行得非常顺利。
Great misfortune has already befallen three of my enemies...
巨大的不幸已经降临在我三个敌人身上……
No
否
Yes
是

[Map155]
Stone pillars tower over the gym.
石柱高耸于道馆之上。
Bence and Zoé.... Zence.... Boé....
本斯和佐伊……岑斯……博埃……
I hope my current team will work well against them, but I can't know for sure.
我希望我当前的队伍能对他们有效，但我无法确定。

[Map159]
This Old Amber has been carved into a relief of a dog-like Pokémon.
这块秘密琥珀被雕刻成了一只类似狗的宝可梦的浮雕。
Travel Agency: Orre
旅行社：奥雷
This statue's smile feels malicious.
这座雕像的微笑感觉充满恶意。
It looms over you like it intends to devour you whole.
它笼罩着你，仿佛打算将你整个吞噬。
This looks like an abstract painting of a garden.
这看起来是一幅花园的抽象画。
On closer inspection, it's a painting of Vivillion's wings!
仔细一看，这是一幅彩粉蝶翅膀的画！
Ahem.
咳咳。
Pardon, that's my tea you're eying.
抱歉，你盯着的可是我的茶。
I'd offer to brew you a cup, had I a kettle on me.
如果我身上有壶的话，我会给你泡一杯的。
Dash it all, I've had enough!
该死的，我受够了！
That's MY tea you're ogling!
你盯着的可是我的茶！
I'm not sure why you're so fixated on it, but I simply cannot drink it with you staring like that.
我不明白你为什么这么执着于它，但你那样盯着，我根本没法喝。
The gentleman behind the counter sputters a bit, but decides it's not worth it to chastise you.
柜台后的绅士有点气急败坏，但决定责骂你不值得。
Its wings look like a Pokéball!
它的翅膀看起来像个精灵球！
These flowers have a distinctive smell.
这些花有一种独特的气味。
It almost reminds you of perfume...
它几乎让你想起了香水...
It's a little hard to see, but Makya and Alola have a lot in common.
有点难以看出，但玛基亚和阿罗拉有很多共同点。
Team Chasm has gone the way of Team Skull.
裂隙队已经走上了骷髅队的道路。
While Team Skull was never as menacing, both regions still have to deal with what comes next.
虽然骷髅队从未那么具有威胁性，但两个地区仍然要应对接下来发生的事情。
A tall pillar with a celestial symbol on top.
一根高大的柱子，顶部有一个天体符号。
A sign claims it's a scale replica of a pillar found at the Altar of the Moone!
标牌声称这是月轮祭坛发现的柱子的等比例复制品！
It's full of packaging.
里面全是包装。
The King and First Champion of Galar.
伽勒尔的国王和第一任冠军。
...at least according to the plaque.
...至少根据牌匾是这么说的。
Yo. I'm the travel guide to Orre.
哟。我是奥雷的旅行向导。
Yeah, this setup is pretty scuffed.
是啊，这个布置挺简陋的。
If you know what Orre's about and you're still here, you probably don't care about fanfare anyways.
如果你知道奥雷是什么地方还留在这里，你可能根本不在乎繁文缛节。
Travelling the globe really puts everything in perspective.
环球旅行真的能让人看清一切。
This young lass I met in Alola -- Lainie...? I think was her name.
我在阿罗拉遇到的这个年轻姑娘——莱妮……？我想那是她的名字。
She really was a curious character, but she gave me some amazing advice...
她真是个古怪的角色，但她给了我一些很棒的建议……
Anyways, I uh... got to go.
总之，我呃……得走了。
Lined with classic literature.
排列着经典文学。
Most of the spines look uncracked.
大部分书脊看起来都未翻开过。
Alola! Welcome to the Alolan Travel Agency!
阿罗拉！欢迎来到阿罗拉旅行社！
Here we can get you set up with a...
在这里我们可以帮你安排……
Hey! Parker! C'mere, this dude surfs!
嘿！帕克！过来，这家伙会冲浪！
Man, how cool is that!
哇，太酷了！
Yo, tell ya what, dude. You might be able to help us.
哟，跟你说，伙计。你也许能帮上我们。
We were trying to catch some waves out on County Park Lake.
我们想在县公园湖上冲浪。
We had a box of stuff we were gonna use to par --
我们有一箱东西本来打算用来派——
Enjoy a nice evening with. But we got attacked by this huge Gyarados!
享受一个美好的夜晚。但我们被一只巨大的暴鲤龙攻击了！
If you manage to grab it and bring it back to us, we'll hook you up with an Alolan Wreath.
如果你能拿到它并带回来给我们，我们会给你一顶阿罗拉花环。
A whole evolution item! How cool, right?
一整个进化道具！多酷啊，对吧？
Just bring back the box of stuff, and don't tell anyone.
只要把那箱东西带回来，别告诉任何人。
You got the box of stuff? The one we lost at the County Park Lake?
你拿到那箱东西了？我们在县公园湖丢的那个？
Yo! You got it! Hot damn!
哟！你拿到了！该死！
A deal is a freakin' deal! The Wreath's all yours.
一言为定！花环归你了。
You know, I bet there's all sorts of cool items tucked away in water-y areas all over Makya.
你知道吗，我打赌玛基亚各地的水域里藏着各种酷炫的道具。
Tons of dummies have probably lost some important crap while trying to swim.
 tons 的傻瓜可能在试图游泳时丢了一些重要的东西。
It's the same way in Alola.
阿罗拉也是一样。
C'moooooooon, champ. Don't mess with me like that.
拜托了，冠军。别这样耍我。
We owe you one kid. We can't get you a ticket since that would be, like, suuuuuuper illegal.
我们欠你一个人情，小子。我们不能给你弄票，因为那会是，呃，超级违法的。
But we owe you one. A non-illegal one.
但我们欠你一个人情。一个合法的人情。
A sign claims it's a scale replica of a pillar found at the Altar of the Sunne!
标牌声称这是日轮祭坛发现的柱子的等比例复制品！
These crates are covered in stickers.
这些板条箱上贴满了贴纸。
It looks like imports from Orre go through heavy screening.
看起来来自奥雷的进口货物要经过严格检查。
You see your reflection on the glass of the clock, as time ticks on.
随着时间流逝，你在钟表的玻璃上看到了自己的倒影。
Travel Agency: Galar
旅行社：伽勒尔
These flowers are rustling slightly...
这些花正在轻轻摇曳...
...a Flabébé peeks out of hiding!
...一只花蓓蓓从藏身处探出头来！
This plant looks well-pruned.
这株植物看起来修剪得很好。
There's a lot of places to travel in the world.
世界上有很多地方可以去旅行。
It's nice to see that other regions are open to Makya, despite all the stuff with Team Chasm.
很高兴看到其他地区对玛基亚开放，尽管发生了裂隙队的那些事。
Well hello, young one.
你好啊，年轻人。
I'm rather spiritless right now. Not many people appreciate the noble history of Galar, I suppose.
我现在相当无精打采。我想没多少人欣赏伽勒尔高贵的历史。
Would you fancy a battle? If you win, I'll gift you one of these Galarica Wreaths.
你想来场对战吗？如果你赢了，我会送你一顶伽勒卡花环。
You can use it to evolve certain Pokemon.
你可以用它来进化某些宝可梦。
All of this stuff on display are replicas anyways, so don't worry about wrecking the place.
所有展出的东西都是复制品，所以不用担心会破坏这个地方。
Very well then. They pay me by the hour, so I can stay here as long as I want.
那好吧。他们按小时付我工资，所以我想待多久就待多久。
Wonderful! Let's get started.
太棒了！让我们开始吧。
Fantastic showing! You deserve this.
精彩的表现！这是你应得的。
You're a fantastic battler!
你是个了不起的对战家！
I can see you're busy now.
我能看出你现在很忙。
When you're ready, you should take a trip to Galar.
等你准备好了，你应该去伽勒尔旅行一趟。
I'm sure the Trainers there would appreciate having you.
我相信那里的训练家会很高兴有你的到来。
A globe, with Makya and various other regions highlighted.
一个地球仪，玛基亚和其他各个地区被标注出来。
It shows the most common shipment routes between them.
它显示了它们之间最常见的运输路线。
Several different drawings of cheerful travel agency rooms.
几张欢快的旅行社房间设计图。
If these are serving as inspiration, this room has a long way to go.
如果这些是用作灵感的话，这个房间还有很长的路要走。
I've been on an journey all around the world to hone my artistic talents.
我一直在世界各地旅行，磨练我的艺术才能。
If you have a Vivillon, I could change its pattern to one from just about anywhere!
如果你有一只彩粉蝶，我可以把它的花纹改成几乎任何地方的花纹！
Fantastic! A true work of art, if I do say so myself.
太棒了！如果我自己这么说的话，这真是一件艺术品。
That's alright. Sometimes natural is best, after all!
没关系。毕竟有时候自然才是最好的！
Travel Agency: Alola
旅行社：阿罗拉
A fancy pinboard, decorated with pictures of tropical sun.
一块精美的布告板，装饰着热带阳光的照片。
Alongside the pictures are various pricing plans.
照片旁边是各种价格方案。
A painting of a Pokéball in the process of being made.
一幅正在制作中的精灵球的画。
A machine is about to join the top and bottom halves together.
一台机器即将把上下两半合在一起。
A note identifies this as a Galarica shrub.
一张纸条标明这是伽勒卡灌木。
It looks like some twigs have been snapped off.
看起来有些小枝被折断了。
Interested in a little trip to Kalos, no?
有兴趣去卡洛斯小旅行一下吗？
Perhaps you are interested in visiting the grand city of Lumiose?
也许你有兴趣参观宏伟的密阿雷市？
Or are you enticed by some landmarks like the Pokeball Factory or the Castle of Chivalry?
或者你被一些地标吸引，比如精灵球工厂或骑士城堡？
Or are you one of those weirdos who want to visit Pikachu Land?
或者你是那些想参观皮卡丘乐园的怪人之一？
A display of colorful brochures.
一排彩色宣传册的展示。
Some are focused on regional battle specialties, while others highlight nature and culture.
有些侧重于地区对战特色，而其他的则突出自然和文化。
Nothing's on display yet.
还没有任何东西展出。
Someone left a half-empty can of lemonade on one of the shelves.
有人在一个架子上留下了一罐喝了一半的柠檬水。
Travel Agency: Kalos
旅行社：卡洛斯
It flutters its Fancy-patterned wings!
它扇动着花纹翅膀！
This statue's smile feels benevolent and kind.
这座雕像的微笑感觉仁慈而和善。
It peers down at you protectively.
它保护性地俯视着你。
A painting of a garden.
一幅花园的画。
The closer you look, the more Fairy-types you see!
你看得越仔细，看到的妖精属性宝可梦就越多！
A painting of the countryside from a cottage window.
一幅从农舍窗户看出去的乡村风景画。
Flocks of Wooloo mirror the clouds in the sky.
成群的毛辫羊映照着天空中的云朵。
I just came back from a trip to Alola with some of my co-workers.
我刚和一些同事从阿罗拉旅行回来。
I wanted to catch some Pokemon to help with my dance routines, so I caught a few Oricorio.
我想抓一些宝可梦来帮我编舞，所以我抓了几只花舞鸟。
Unfortunately, my sound system broke on the flight back, so now I need to either get a new system or have a Pokemon do it.
不幸的是，我的音响系统在回程航班上坏了，所以现在我要么买一个新系统，要么让宝可梦来做。
I'd probably need a Pokemon with the Loud ability. If you've got one, I'll trade you one of the Oricorio I caught.
我大概需要一只拥有大声特性的宝可梦。如果你有的话，我可以用我抓的一只花舞鸟跟你交换。
A new sound system it is...
那就买新音响系统吧……
Asking my manager for another huge purchase is gonna suck...
向经理申请又一笔大额采购会很糟糕……
Oh wow! Yeah, that Pokemon is perfect!
哦哇！是啊，那只宝可梦太完美了！
This Pokemon is exactly what I needed.
这只宝可梦正是我需要的。
Thanks for the help, gotta get back to work now.
谢谢你的帮助，现在得回去工作了。
Its wings are the color of a Sandstorm.
它的翅膀是沙暴的颜色。
This plant is fake.
这株植物是假的。
Its leaves are made of cheap plastic.
它的叶子是用廉价塑料做的。
Nah.
不用了。
Sure.
当然。
No thanks.
不用了，谢谢。

[Map165]
Thanks! It's a pretty cool rock, huh?
谢谢！这是块很酷的石头，对吧？

[Map175]
A very dusty-looking PC. It must not have been in use in a very long time.
一台看起来非常积灰的电脑。肯定很久没用了。

[Map186]
How many Champions get to throw down with a partner like this?
有多少冠军能和这样的搭档一起战斗？
There's this job at the Skeevy Eevee that Aaron offered me.
亚伦在猥琐伊布给我提供了一份工作。
Maybe it won't be the "perfect ending", but it can still be... it can still be good enough.
也许这不会是"完美结局"，但它仍然可以……仍然可以足够好。
Now, you're wondering how all this happened.
现在，你想知道这一切是怎么发生的。
I meddled with something that... I definitely shouldn't have.
我插手了某件……我绝对不该插手的事情。
Here's a thank you gift. You need it more than I do.
这是谢礼。你比我更需要它。
I'm gonna try to not think too hard about how that works...
我会尽量不去深究这是怎么运作的……
Well then, I'm off to Prizca East.
那么，我要去东普里斯卡了。

[Map187]
The name on the mail box has worn away.
邮箱上的名字已经磨损不清了。
A small plastic tag reads "\PN's House".
一个小塑料牌上写着"\PN的家"。
A shiny brass plaque reads "\PN's Residence".
一块闪亮的铜匾上写着"\PN的住所"。
"Emma's Empoloreum!"
"艾玛的帝王拿波馆！"
A Piplup standee points you to the door.
一个波加曼立牌指向门口。
The door is locked.
门是锁着的。
I got a lot of energy, but my Rockruff somehow has even more.
我精力充沛，但我的岩狗狗不知怎的精力更旺盛。
Too many candy treats, maybe?
也许是糖果吃太多了？
Yeah, you should probably have these instead.
是啊，你或许应该收下这些。
Nevermind, it looks like he's just like this...
算了，看来他天生就这样……
An Empoleon standee points you to the door.
一个帝王拿波立牌指向门口。
Condensed sweat fogs the window.
凝结的汗水使窗户蒙上了雾气。
My god, this park is so much better than the one at LuxTech.
天哪，这个公园比LuxTech的那个好太多了。
West: Battle Plaza
西：对战广场
North: Prizca Castle
北：普里兹卡城堡
East: Split Peaks
东：裂峰
You read the plaque.
你阅读了牌匾。
"The Capital Building represents the prosperity that came after the establishment of the Makyan Congress."
"首都大厦象征着Makyan国会建立后带来的繁荣。"
"An unbroken era of peace which followed the decades of strife, which had left much of Makya razed."
"在长达数十年的战乱使Makya大部分地区化为焦土之后，迎来了一个持续不断的和平时代。"
"Makya's monarchy was unable to govern the land, and the people of Makya came together to end the region's suffering."
"Makya的君主无力治理这片土地，Makya的人民团结起来，终结了这个地区的苦难。"
Kantonian-Kalosian Fusion
关都-卡洛斯融合料理
Someone seems to have left a note on the sign.
似乎有人在标牌上留了张便条。
"Now closed indefinitely, thanks for all the memories!"
"现已无限期停业，感谢所有的回忆！"
A sign is hung on the front door. It reads:
前门挂着一块牌子，上面写着：
"We're off to Casaba Villa for the summer! Any business inquiries can be given to our assistant!"
"我们夏天去卡萨巴别墅了！任何业务咨询可以交给我们的助理！"
Bicycles are the only correct way to get around a dense town like this one.
在像这样密集的城镇里，自行车是唯一正确的出行方式。
I'm getting some circles done!
我正在完成一些圆圈！
Nature's Gallery
自然画廊
"Prizca has stood for over 3500 years, making it the oldest capital city on the continent."
"普里兹卡已屹立超过3500年，是这片大陆上最古老的都城。"
"The people of Prizca will prosper for as long as the city stands."
"只要这座城市屹立不倒，普里兹卡的人民就会繁荣昌盛。"
"May it last for another 3500 years!"
"愿它再延续3500年！"
"Prizca, where the future is built with the past."
"普里兹卡，一个以过去筑就未来的地方。"
A poster for an upcoming show. A notice says it's almost sold out!
一张 upcoming 演出的海报。通知上说票快卖光了！
Next to it is a calendar of other upcoming events.
旁边是其他 upcoming 活动的日历。
Prizca Castle predates even the city itself.
普里兹卡城堡甚至比这座城市本身还要古老。
Some historians say it could be almost 4000 years old!
一些历史学家说它可能有近4000年的历史了！
The cityscape here always inspires me.
这里的城市景观总能给我带来灵感。
The shapes, the colors, the fashion, it's all wonderful.
造型、色彩、时尚，一切都美妙极了。
It's an artist's paradise, I can see why Noel sets up shop here.
这里是艺术家的天堂，我明白为什么诺埃尔会在这里开店了。
I saw a famous singer appear out of thin air.
我看到一位著名歌手凭空出现了。
Right in front of that clay statue near the castle.
就在城堡附近那座泥塑雕像的正前方。
I tried reporting it to the rangers, but they all just laughed at me.
我试着向护林员报告，但他们都嘲笑我。
I know what I saw!
我知道我看到了什么！
Just because I can't remember his name doesn't mean you shouldn't believe me...
我只是记不起他的名字，但这不代表你不该相信我……
Skeevy Eevee Pub
猥琐伊布酒馆
Prizca's East Gym
普里兹卡东道馆
Leader: Noel
馆主：诺埃尔
Sculptor, Battler, Artist.
雕塑家、对战者、艺术家。
A lineup for an upcoming music festival.
一场 upcoming 音乐节的演出阵容。
Electrique!, Mandibles of the Land, OHKO Queen, HippowDon't... it's a long list.
Electrique!、大地之颚、一击必杀女王、别河马……名单很长。
Museum-quality artifacts behind shiny metal bars.
闪闪发光的金属栏杆后陈列着博物馆级别的文物。
I'll take your Pokémon for a --
让我来照顾你的宝可梦——
Wow, you have no idea how easy it is to slip into that habit.
哇，你根本想不到养成那个习惯有多容易。
I'm just here to have a smoke before I have to go back to work.
我只是趁回去工作之前来抽根烟。
The cafe inside is pretty nice, you should check it out.
里面的咖啡馆挺不错的，你应该去看看。
Their coffee is pretty good.
他们的咖啡相当不错。
Bit pricey though.
不过有点贵。
"Best bang for your buck in Makya!"
"Makya性价比最高的地方！"
I used to be Chasm, but now I work at the Capitol Building.
我以前是Chasm的人，但现在我在国会大厦工作。
Got myself a nice office and everything. A pretty decent setup for being a former grunt.
给自己弄了间不错的办公室，该有的都有。对一个前杂兵来说，这待遇相当不错了。
I mean, mostly everyone got off alright. Helena made sure everyone at least had a job before the Team disbanded.
我是说，基本上大家都过得不错。Helena在队伍解散前确保每个人至少都有份工作。
I wonder what my former squadmates are doing. I hope they're alright.
我想知道我以前的队友们都在做什么。希望他们一切都好。
Noel's House
诺埃尔的家
The shops on this side of town are quite quaint.
镇子这边的店铺相当古朴雅致。
Lot of odds and ends, stuff you won't find anywhere else!
有很多杂七杂八的小玩意儿，你在别处根本找不到！
Ironclad Dojo
铁壁道场
Make yourself as tough as iron!
把自己锻炼得如铁般坚硬！
The West end of Prizca was constructed rapidly over the last thirty or so years.
普里兹卡的西区是在过去大约三十年里快速建设起来的。
No time for beauty or community to form, it's all very lifeless over there.
没时间去形成美感或社区氛围，那边一切都死气沉沉的。
This side of the city is much more charming.
城市的这一边要有魅力得多。
Noel may be chill, but the trainers in his gym are anything but.
诺埃尔可能很随和，但他道馆里的训练家可完全不是那么回事。
Lording their position over challengers, making them run petty errands to 'earn' the 'right' to fight them.
仗着地位对挑战者作威作福，让他们跑些琐碎的差事来"赢得"与他们战斗的"权利"。
Makes me sick that they can be so openly corrupt.
他们能如此明目张胆地腐败，真让我恶心。
The Houndominus has its eyes locked on its trainer.
那只Houndominus的目光紧紧锁定着它的训练家。
Y'know, \PN, I never thought to ask your name.
你知道吗，\PN，我从没想过要问你的名字。
Figured it out on the way here when I did a quick li’l background check on my client up here, and then on you too.
来这儿的路上，我顺便快速调查了一下我的客户，然后也查了你。
Guess this breaks some kinda confidentiality rule, but I ain't never been an honorable sort: it's Zain.
我猜这违反了某种保密规定，但我从来就不是什么正人君子：是Zain。
Your big brother’s hired me, lookin’ to get his reserves in shape.
你大哥雇了我，想让他后备的宝可梦练练身手。
Keepin’ it cool. Gotta make sure it ain’t just bravado, though. Ya know how it is.
保持冷静。不过得确认那不只是虚张声势。你懂的。
Lotsa folks talk a big talk. It’s been a while since we last had a chat, so maybe ya lost your touch.
很多人只会吹牛。咱们好久没聊了，说不定你退步了呢。
'Fraid not. I ain't honorable, but I do what I do, and I do a mighty fine job of it.
恐怕不是。我虽不正派，但我干我的活，而且干得很漂亮。
I got paid, I got Pokémon, and you know what that means.
我拿了钱，带了宝可梦，你知道这意味着什么。
Oh, ya don’t have to tell me twice.
哦，不用你说两遍。
I figure lettin’ you have a crack at 'em gives you a neat little leg up in a way that’s still me doing my job, ya get it?
我想让你试试身手，这样既能给你一点小小的优势，也算我在履行职责，你明白吧？
So, ya got time for a match?
所以，你有时间对战一场吗？
I know, I know, I do it every time, but I got debts to pay. We can chat afterwards, if that’s what you’re after.
我知道，我知道，我每次都是这样，但我有债要还。如果你想聊天，咱们之后可以聊。
Whaddya say?
你说呢？
I ain’t goin’ nowhere. Drop by, yeah?
我哪儿也不去。有空来坐坐，好吗？
Well, let’s see what your brother’s got for ya.
好吧，来看看你哥哥给你准备了什么。
Back for a li’l sneak peek? Ya damned rascal.
回来偷看一点？你这个小混蛋。
Well, ya took care of that well enough, didn’t ya?
嗯，你处理得不错，不是吗？
Maybe Zain’s better than I am. He’s going through gyms, ain’t he?
也许Zain比我强。他在挑战道馆，不是吗？
I never did have the time for that.
我从来没时间做那个。
I was working for Chasm back when Yezera and I were fightin’. Then they set up the gyms.
我和Yezera打架那会儿，我还在为Chasm工作。后来他们设立了道馆。
Yezera got through 'em like nothin’, but at that point… I wasn’t feelin’ it.
Yezera轻松通过了那些道馆，但那时候……我没那个心情。
Don’t feel like talkin’ about her too much, though. She’s got enough on her plate without me gossipin’.
不过我不想多谈她。不用我八卦，她手头的事已经够多了。
Didn’t I just say I wasn’t gonna gossip?
我不是刚说了我不会八卦吗？
But everybody knows it: she went missin’. Couldn’t handle the spotlight.
但大家都知道：她失踪了。她承受不了聚光灯的压力。
Hell, could barely handle a conversation with most folks. Been like that since she was a tot.
见鬼，她连和大多数人正常交谈都困难。从小就这样。
Ya better respect your elders, kid.
你最好尊重长辈，小子。
I ain't talked your ear off half as much as my grandpappy did.
我没像我爷爷那样唠叨你半天。
Ya know you don't hafta come find me, yeah? I didn't hunt you down.
你知道你不必来找我，对吧？我又没追着你跑。
What, of Yezera's?
什么，Yezera的？
Best damn friend there ever was.
有史以来最好的朋友。
Sure, I was a bully back then, but ain't nobody bullied her but me.
当然，我以前是个恶霸，但除了我没人欺负她。
We fought like Zangoose and Seviper, ya know that?
我们打得像猫鼬斩和饭匙蛇一样，你知道吗？
But 'nuff said. I gotta get out of town.
但说得够多了。我得离开这个镇子。
Things are 'bout to get messy – I gotta feeling.
事情要变糟了——我有这种感觉。
So if you end up in the thick of it, keep your guard up.
所以如果你陷入其中，保持警惕。
'Member: slow is smooth, smooth is fast. Make it out of that, then we'll talk.
记住：慢就是稳，稳就是快。从那里活着出来，咱们再聊。
Catch ya at that <imp>, yeah? And take this. Better you than Zain.
咱们在<<imp>见，好吗？拿着这个。给你总比给Zain好。
I'm here to challenge the gym, but the people in there are just the worst.
我是来挑战道馆的，但里面的人简直糟透了。
I don't have enough money to buy all the stuff they're making me grab!
我没有足够的钱买他们让我买的所有东西！
Maybe I can scare one of them into giving me back my items...
也许我可以吓唬他们中的一个，让他们把我的东西还回来……
Its nametag reads "Thor".
它的名牌上写着"Thor"。
East End Exclusives
东区独家精品
I know, I know, it's a <i> park, not a <i> park.
我知道，我知道，这是<i>公园，不是<i>公园。
But my little menace has more energy than I know what to do with.
但我的小捣蛋鬼精力充沛得我都不知道该怎么办。
I had to find an outlet!
我得找个发泄的地方！
This man doesn't notice you, he seems to be rambling to someone over the phone.
这个男人没注意到你，他似乎在对着电话自言自语。
You don't see a phone though. Maybe an earpiece?
不过你没看到电话。也许是耳机？
Who's a good boy? Who's a good boy?
谁是乖孩子？谁是乖孩子？
You are boy, you are!
你是乖孩子，你是！
Yo yo, if it ain't my favorite person to lose over and over to.
哟哟，这不是我最喜欢一遍又一遍输给的人吗。
Just kidding. That's Aaron. He's very polite.
开玩笑的。那是Aaron。他非常有礼貌。
Back on topic: The gym here is pretty straightforward.
回到正题：这里的道馆相当简单直接。
Once I grabbed a Knight Helmet from Prizca Castle to evolve this Escavalier, I knew I was about 50% there already.
当我从普里兹卡城堡拿到骑士头盔来进化这只骑士蜗牛时，我就知道我已经完成大约一半了。
Though, I'm still a crazy perfectionist, so I want to battle for more practice, if you're up to it.
不过，我还是个疯狂的完美主义者，所以如果你愿意，我想通过对战再多练习一下。
So much culture here. Makes me want to say something poetic.
这里文化氛围真浓。让我想说些富有诗意的话。
But, eh, let's just battle instead.
但是，呃，咱们还是直接对战吧。
Understood.
明白了。
I'll be here until you wish to battle.
我会一直待在这里，直到你想对战。
CHAAAAAARGE!
冲——啊！
Aaron would have found a way to compliment my battling just now, despite how lop-sided that was.
尽管刚才那场对战多么一边倒，Aaron肯定还是会想办法称赞我的。
Two Dark-types will be great against Noel, but it seems that its less good against you.
两只恶属性宝可梦对付Noel会很棒，但看来对你就不太奏效了。
Gimme a minute, and we'll be right as rain, and ready to compete yet again.
给我一分钟，我们马上就能恢复如初，准备好再次对战。
Wow, they were right about word traveling fast in these parts.
哇，他们说在这些地方消息传得飞快，果然没错。
A passing socialite told me about your victory a full minute ago.
一位路过的上流人士整整一分钟前就告诉我你的胜利了。
I gotta travel fast, too! So begins my attempts at a perfect victory over Prizca East gym...
我也得快点赶路！就这样，我开始尝试完美战胜普里兹卡东道馆……
Noel is such a cool dude.
Noel真是个酷家伙。
Everyone focuses on his sculptures, but I know that his true art is in battling!
大家都关注他的雕塑，但我知道他真正的艺术在于对战！
The amount of offensive pressure his Pokemon create is simply breathtaking.
他的宝可梦制造的进攻压力简直令人叹为观止。
Especially if he manages to set up Frost Spikes.
尤其是如果他成功布置了Frost Spikes的话。
So cool!
太酷了！
W-what?! You got Noel's badge?
什——什么？！你拿到Noel的徽章了？
You're sick! Sick! I wish I got to see it!
你太厉害了！厉害！我真希望当时能在场看到！
What was once a printed notice has been painted over with a scene of a beautiful glacier at sunrise.
原本的一张印刷告示，现在被涂画成了一幅日出时美丽冰川的景象。
"TMs you NEED at prices you WANT!"
"你需要的技术机器，你想要的价格！"
Florian Park
弗洛里安公园
My life has moved so fast.
我的人生过得太快了。
Feels like just yesterday that I was attending the newly founded Novo Academy.
Feels like just yesterday that I was attending the newly founded Novo Academy.
Of course, that was over 50 years ago!
Of course, that was over 50 years ago!
It's been upgraded to a "College" since then.
It's been upgraded to a "College" since then.
I practice styling my Furfrou every day!
I practice styling my Furfrou every day!
Hey, do you have a Furfrou? I'd just love to style it!
Hey, do you have a Furfrou? I'd just love to style it!
It's just brilliant! Brilliant, I say!
It's just brilliant! Brilliant, I say!
Well, ok. I'll just be here with my Furfrou.
Well, ok. I'll just be here with my Furfrou.
A few months ago someone tried to bring their yacht through this river.
A few months ago someone tried to bring their yacht through this river.
His boat hit some rocks and sunk. Right here.
His boat hit some rocks and sunk. Right here.
It took the city service three weeks to clear everything.
It took the city service three weeks to clear everything.
It was completely stupid, but you have to respect his drive a little.
It was completely stupid, but you have to respect his drive a little.
Man, life is rough.
Man, life is rough.
I came here from Hoenn to get a shot at taking out some of the avatars, but I've had no luck.
I came here from Hoenn to get a shot at taking out some of the avatars, but I've had no luck.
This Gyarados avatar completely demolished my team the other day.
This Gyarados avatar completely demolished my team the other day.
I really, really need a Fairy-type.
I really, really need a Fairy-type. 
If you happen to have one, I'll trade you a Relicanth for it.
If you happen to have one, I'll trade you a Relicanth for it. 
Tsk. Maybe I'm just not cut out for this...
Tsk. Maybe I'm just not cut out for this...
If you get your hands on an Fairy-type, I'd appreciate a trade.
If you get your hands on an Fairy-type, I'd appreciate a trade.
Oh, you're a dear! Let's get this trade going.
Oh, you're a dear! Let's get this trade going.
Sweet, I'm off to find another avatar to battle!
Sweet, I'm off to find another avatar to battle!
"Phones, batteries, accessories-- you name it, we have it!"
"Phones, batteries, accessories-- you name it, we have it!"
My Snubbull is simply the most creative Pokemon this side of the Eleig River.
My Snubbull is simply the most creative Pokemon this side of the Eleig River.
Don't you agree? You can clearly see it on her face!
Don't you agree? You can clearly see it on her face!
So?
So?
Don't train them.
Don't train them.
Let me fight them.
Let me fight them.
Not now.
Not now.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Like what?
Like what?
Oh, good.
Oh, good.
You're a good friend.
You're a good friend.
Maybe later.
Maybe later.
Sure, let's go.
Sure, let's go.
No
No
Yes
Yes
[Map189]
I - the extraction's wrapping up. I have to get going.
I - the extraction's wrapping up. I have to get going.
If you find me again, we'll have a real battle.
If you find me again, we'll have a real battle.
Bye, for now.
Bye, for now.
[Map203]
Hey hey, \PN! Say hi to the Skeevee Eevee’s newest Behavioural Trainer!
Hey hey, \PN! Say hi to the Skeevee Eevee’s newest Behavioural Trainer!
I get to <i>socialize the Eevees</i>! It’s kind of a sick gig!
I get to <i>socialize the Eevees</i>! It’s kind of a sick gig!
Oh, and there’s tons of healing items here, so, I can heal your team in between bouts.
Oh, and there’s tons of healing items here, so, I can heal your team in between bouts.
Gonna switch ‘em up at random. Keep you on your toes.
Gonna switch ‘em up at random. Keep you on your toes.
[Map211]
Mentally, it’s been a mixed bag, but physically...?
Mentally, it’s been a mixed bag, but physically...?
Talking about “gravitas”, this is the second to last spot I’ve got planned.
Talking about “gravitas”, this is the second to last spot I’ve got planned.
Let’s make it count, yeah?
Let’s make it count, yeah?
Yeah, it’s... pretty chilly. Hard to tell that it’s still summer.
Yeah, it’s... pretty chilly. Hard to tell that it’s still summer.
<imp>Frostflow Farms</imp>. See you there.
<imp>Frostflow Farms</imp>. See you there.
[Map290]
Ahh, the artistic vigor—it's coursing through me!
Ahh, the artistic vigor—it's coursing through me!
[Map318]
Didn’t see you there.
Didn’t see you there.
I know I usually take losses like a champ, but this time’s different.
I know I usually take losses like a champ, but this time’s different.
Anyways... I’m gonna head out somewhere quiet.
Anyways... I’m gonna head out somewhere quiet.
Oops, sorry! I’m usually more careful.
Oops, sorry! I’m usually more careful.
I know we’re not exactly close, but...
I know we’re not exactly close, but...
Either way, I’ll be at <imp>Bluepoint Beach</imp>.
Either way, I’ll be at <imp>Bluepoint Beach</imp>.
[Map327]
I’m getting to that, but also, hey, it could come in handy some day, yeah?
I’m getting to that, but also, hey, it could come in handy some day, yeah?
Gigas’s chamber can only be opened by the other five Regis together.
Gigas’s chamber can only be opened by the other five Regis together.
I don’t know. She agreed with us: it was too dangerous. We were criminals, not lunatics.
 I don’t know. She agreed with us: it was too dangerous. We were criminals, not lunatics.
I know things… haven’t been great for her, but this? This is insane.
I know things… haven’t been great for her, but this?  This is insane.
Gigas’s chamber is deep down, though, and if they haven’t broken the seal yet, it’d be for nothing.
Gigas’s chamber is deep down, though, and if they haven’t broken the seal yet, it’d be for nothing.
Or if they’ve resealed it. I can try and scout it out, but… no promises.
Or if they’ve resealed it. I can try and scout it out, but… no promises.
My POINT is that if you don’t help out, you better get used to the look of white stone.
My POINT is that if you don’t help out, you better get used to the look of white stone.
You’re gonna be seeing a whole lot more of it if someone tells Regigigas to let loose.
You’re gonna be seeing a whole lot more of it if someone tells Regigigas to let loose.
Listen, I don’t know. I don’t know a lot of things.
Listen, I don’t know. I don’t know a lot of things.
So let me talk to Andris, our rangers, Helena, whoever else I can find. We’ll figure out how bad things are.
So let me talk to Andris, our rangers, Helena, whoever else I can find. We’ll figure out how bad things are.
They’ve got at least one Regi, probably more, so there’s a strong temptation to wreak havoc. Trust me – I’d know.
They’ve got at least one Regi, probably more, so there’s a strong temptation to wreak havoc. Trust me – I’d know.
[Map449]
I’ll have to work even harder to be perfect.
I’ll have to work even harder to be perfect.
[Map450]
Sorry, it's just... when people know that I was on the science team, they invariably try to pry secrets out of me.
Sorry, it's just... when people know that I was on the science team, they invariably try to pry secrets out of me.
[Map452]
Anecdotal qualitative observations note object’s extremely low temperature.
Anecdotal qualitative observations note object’s extremely low temperature.
OBJ-TAO-3 temporarily housed in laboratory sub- storage room 4.
OBJ-TAO-3 temporarily housed in laboratory sub- storage room 4.
[5]
Shared Spoils
Shared Spoils
[6]
The user communes with all the world's water, waterlogging the target and forming an Aqua Ring around themselves, healing 10% HP per turn.
The user communes with all the world's water, waterlogging the target and forming an Aqua Ring around themselves, healing 10% HP per turn.
The user attacks and steals the foe's held item simultaneously. You then choose a party member to hold it.
The user attacks and steals the foe's held item simultaneously. You then choose a party member to hold it.
[24]
ABILITIES[Z]
ABILITIES[Z]
But nobody could receive the item!
But nobody could receive the item!
\i[SPANNINGBAND]What? The Spanning Bands are suddenly glowing!
\i[SPANNINGBAND]What? The Spanning Bands are suddenly glowing!
\i[SPANNINGBAND]They glow in sync with the <imp>Avatar Totem</imp>.
\i[SPANNINGBAND]They glow in sync with the <imp>Avatar Totem</imp>.
\i[SPANNINGBAND]A vision of Casaba Villa flashes across your mind.
\i[SPANNINGBAND]A vision of Casaba Villa flashes across your mind.
\i[SPANNINGBAND]You sense that some sort of <imp>connection</imp> has been made.
\i[SPANNINGBAND]You sense that some sort of <imp>connection</imp> has been made.
The Pokémon's species abilities can't be changed!
The Pokémon's species abilities can't be changed!
You can change a Pokémon's species abilities here!
You can change a Pokémon's species abilities here!
Which do you want to choose?
Which do you want to choose?
You don't have enough money to change the Pokémon's species abilities!
You don't have enough money to change the Pokémon's species abilities!
It costs $5000, are you sure?
It costs $5000, are you sure?
The Pokémon's species abilities changed!
The Pokémon's species abilities changed!